# How evolution give up regeneration

## The main idea of evolution and its motivation

People dream about human beings getting the ability of regeneration again, which has been lost in evolution history for a long time. There is a widespread idea that the ability of whole-body regeneration was 'lost' by animals during evolution. However, there is a possibility that animals gave up regeneration for a reason. Or less aggressively speaking, regeneration ability is a evolutionary unfavorable object, which was passively lost in the evolution. 

Evolution, is a process of animal gain or loss of genes and functions. It is a complex process related to genomics, metabolism and every aspect of a construction of an animal species. To simplify this process for this story, evolution can be treated as a gain or loss of genetic diversity. 

The basis of evolution is the change in genomic information, and every change in genetic information is caused by mistakes in duplicating DNA or the wrong manipulation of DNA sequences. Thus we can say that the creation of gene diversity is a side effect, or say, a mistake of gene amplification in animal living. 

Quote from a researcher's word "the motivation of evolution, there is no motivation of evolution, systems tend to be more complex and stable, this is the nature of any animal'. This is correct if you link this idea to what researchers think about the relationship between evolution and entropy increase theory. Meanwhile, this can be explained by the idea that mistakes push forward evolution. In other words, the motivation of evolution is the trend of increasing gene diversity by making mistakes in gene duplication. 

How does generating genetic diversity influence evolution? Functions, abilities..., any unique ability or factors that make an animal species lives better (or worse), are controlled or, created by a new gene or new gene regulation. The creation of such new things is the creation of new 'mistakes'. The judgment of whether a new 'mistake' is favourable is based on how this newly generated function makes this animal lives better and whether it can contribute to the increase of generating more genetic diversity. Therefore, many favourable 'mistakes' make a successful animal species, and the higher the efficiency of that specific animal getting the 'mistakes', the higher the chance of that animal success in evolution. 

Here we need to introduce another idea, which is population. When we move our scope from individual to population and turn it into a larger and longer time scale, we can see that competitions will appear at a specific time point if the resources are limited. Since competition begins, the animals have higher efficiency in generating genetic diversity and have more chances to win. However, an important idea needs to be stated once more. The whole process of gaining genetic diversity or increasing the efficiency of regeneration is passive. It is not an active process that could be interpreted as 'animal try to do things and gain what ability'. No, it is not. 

To further describe 'efficiency', we need to simplify the process of generating diversity. Animal living consumes energy. No matter what is the source of that energy, it consumes. The energy, at the same time, is limited. Thus, animals that consume less energy and create more genetic diversity have the advantage. Therefore, animal species that can generate diversity faster and safer won the race in the evolution history. 

## What does regeneration means to animal and to reproduction

What role does regeneration play in this process? We need to split the evolution history into two parts to answer this question. Given that any 'abilities' were chosen by the basic rule, there must be a specific time point that changes the meaning of regeneration. Before that time point, regeneration was favourable, and regeneration was needed to ensure that animal species could generate genetic diversity. After that time point, regeneration was no longer needed to generate genetic diversity, thus being lost in evolution. There is no specific description of that time point, but we could progressively move to that time point.

There was a time point at which evolution shaped the animals from asexual reproduction to sexual reproduction. Since animals gain the power of reproduction (which is also a critical ability in evolution), the speed of evolution thoroughly changed, and what evolution likes changed completely. 

For asexual reproduction animals, the longer they can survive, the more genetically diverse offspring they can make. Thus, regeneration is a critical ability to ensure that the individual can survive a tough environment and still be able to produce offspring. Early animals don't have a complex system to support their living. Thus regeneration gives them the chance to live longer. The evolution continues, we then have more complex animals, which have better body patterning, more complex inner organs and systems. They have a better ability to live and reproduce, which means that regeneration is not as critical as before. Thus, regeneration became less favourable in evolution. 

Then a most innovative creation appeared — sexual reproduction. The combination of two gametes from two individuals is a highly efficient way of generating genetic diversity, higher than any other reproduction method before syngamy. The efficiency of creation of higher genetically diverse offspring doesn't rely on how long the animal can live, but on the use of the energy-to-diversity ratio, which means that the faster an animal can reproduce, the less energy they consume before the reproduction, the higher efficiency they can get for the purpose of creating genetic diversity. 

The trade-off is that, for an animal individual that doesn't have full-body regeneration ability, if they experience body damage that makes them unable to reproduce offspring, no offspring or genetic diversity can be produced. This leads to a decrease in diversity, but on the other hand, this decrease leads to a positive contribution to animals' ability to survive. There is a selection of an animal individual to protect themselves, to live energy efficiently, before they reproduce. To be more aggressive, for an animal individual, if it finishes reproduction, there is no use for it to live on evolutionary or genetic diversity perspective (for increase energy efficiency). 

Regeneration doesn't make animals evolve better, partly. When you take your perspective to an evolutionary angle, you will see that the purpose of evolution is not to make the animal live better but to make them get higher efficiency in producing genetic diversity. Those genetic diversity, is exactly what makes evolution happen, in the first place. 